Collapsi
Invented by Mark S. Ball
GAME OBJECTIVE
Win the game by being the last player able to make a legal move.
PLAYERS
2 players
CONTENTS
Red Joker, Black Joker, A, A, A, A, 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 3, 4, 4, and 2 Pawns (each pawn a different color or item)
INTRODUCTION
In Collapsi, you will move your pawn around the board each turn. The last player able to make a legal
move wins the game.
SETUP
To determine who will be player one, one person secretly takes the red pawn in one hand and the blue
pawn in the other. The opposite player now chooses a hand and will play as that color for the game. Red
player goes first.
CREATE THE BOARD
Player 1 (red) shuffles the deck of cards and deals them out face=up to form a 4x4 grid. Each player places
their pawns on their own starting joker card. Red begins on the red joker, and blue begins on the black
joker.
PLAY
Red goes first. The number of spaces you must move is determined by the number on your starting card.
A starting card is the card on which you begin your turn. On your first turn, your starting card is a joker.
The joker is wild, and it allows you to move 1, 2, 3, or 4 spaces. It is the only card that allows you to choose
how far you move. After you complete your move, flip your starting card face down. That card has
collapsed, and it can no longer be passed through or landed on.
From your second turn on, you must move a number of spaces equal to your starting card’s number. If
your starting card is a 2, you must move two spaces. If it is a 4, you must move four spaces and so on.
MOVEMENT
In Collapsi, you move your pawn orthogonally: left, right, up, or down. You may move in alternating
directions to complete your turn. For example, if you must move four spaces, you could move up 1, left 3.
Or, you could move down 2, left 1, up 1.
The board in Collapsi is unique in that it wraps around like an old school video game (think Pac-man or
Asteroids). This means that you can “exit” the left side of the board and “enter” the right side in the same
row or vice versa. You can also “exit” the bottom of the board and enter the top in the same column or vice
versa.
There are some things you cannot do in Collapsi:
● You may not move through a card more than once.
● You may not complete your move on your starting card.
● You may not complete your move on a card that contains your opponent’s piece.
CONTINUE PLAY
Play like this continues until a player is unable to complete a move based on the starting card’s number.
As soon as this occurs the game ends.
WIN
The last player able to complete a move wins the game.
POSSIBLE VARIATIONS
It is possible to play with a bigger board such as a 5x5, 6x6, etc. You could even change the board layout
completely by using odd shapes rather than a square grid. More than two players could play as well. If
you decide to play with a larger player count, do not forget to include designated starting cards for those
additional players.
THANK YOU - Cristina, Jacob

